=== Page 1 ===
ion and also financial means with which to
operate. Thus far, nearly all of the local
organizations have set their annual dues at
$5.00 per member. Every white Southerner
should be proud to pay this amount in our
battle for State’s Rights and the individual
right to educate his children with children
of his own kind. It is a fundamental right
for every American to have pride in his
race and to avoid conditions that might
foster and promote intermarriage of his
children with other races.

4. Legal Advisory — This committe pro-
vides the legal knowledge that will aid us
to achieve our aims by constitutional law-
ful means. If the way of life of forty mil-
lion people supported by over a century of
precedence and practice can be upset
legally by nine political appointees, surely
legal steps can be taken by a determined
majority to correct this grievance. It an-
ticipates moves by agitators and devises
legal means for the solution of any racial
problems that might arise locally.

Why Does Your Community
Need a Citizens’ Council?

Maybe your community has had no racial
problems! This may be true; however, you
may not have a fire, yet you maintain a fire
department. You can depend on one thing:
The NAACP (National Association for the
Agitation of Colored People), aided by alien
influences, bloc vote seeking politicians and
left-wing do-gooders, will see that you have
a problem in the near future.

The Citizens’ Council is the South’s an-
swer to the mongrelizers. We will not be
integrated! We are proud of our white blood
and our white heritage of sixty centuries.

People with racial pride are attacked by
the NAACP and its affiliates as being big-
oted, prejudiced, biased, immoral, un-Ameri-
can, etc. These hysterical smear words are

[ 2 ]

used in lieu of any logical reason why a per-
son can no longer be loyal to his white blood,
his church, his state, and his nation above
all else.

In other words, the right to esprit de corps
which has won every war we have fought is
no longer in style. The idea now is seemingly
to pride ourselves in the fact that everybody
in the world should be made equal by law,
regardless of aptitude or heritage. The “have
nots” must share equally with the “have gots”
in this new world order.

If we are bigoted, prejudiced, un-American,
etc., so were George Washington, Thomas
Jefferson, Abraham Lincoln and our other
illustrious forebears who believed in segre-
gation. We choose the old paths of our found-
ing fathers and refuse to destroy their an-
cient landmarks to appease anyone, even the
internationalists. This integregation scheme
ties right in with the new, one world, one
creed, one race philosophy fostered by the
ultra-idealists and international left-wingers.

The fate of our great nation may well rest
in the hands of the Southern white people
today. If we submit to this unconstitutional,
judge-made integration law, the malignant
powers of atheism, communism and mongrel-
ization will surely follow, not only in our
Southland but throughout our nation. To
falter would be tragic; to fail would be fatal.
The white people of the South will again
stand fast and preserve an unsullied race as
our forefathers did eighty years ago. We will
not be integrated, either suddenly or grad-
ually.

Mississippi is considered a poor state in
cash values. Yet we have only one known
communist, the best record of any state in
the union. This year a Mississippi boy was
elected President of Boy’s Nation and a Mis-
sissippi girl was elected President of Girl’s
Nation at the national convention in Wash-
ington. Our youth, then, of both races is our
wealth and our proven defense against the
sinister forces that would destroy our nation.

[ 3 ]
