=== Page 1 ===
LAW OFFICES
S. E. ROGERS
SUMMERTON, S. C.

February 21, 1958

Mr. L. B. McCord
Citizens' Council
Manning, South Carolina

Dear Mr. McCord:

I am enclosing herewith a copy of the Resolution which will be offered in many precincts meetings in South Carolina.

I am also enclosing herewith a copy of the CORE-LATOR showing the registering campaign in South Carolina. Notice that they claim great success in Sumter and that they are making a concertede drive in Clarendon and Williamsburg. I would like to have this back when you are through with it. I feel that the Citizens' Councils should pay more attention to ascertaining that only qualified applicants are registered and that the local councils should know exactly what Negroes are applying and reapplying under the CORE program.

Very truly yours,
S. E. Rogers

SER:jh
Enc.

=== Page 2 ===
RESOLUTION

Whereas, the National Democratic Party under the leader-
ship of Chairman Paul Butler and persons of like caliber
has constantly berated and threatened the South in order
to curry favor with the NAACP, ADA, and similar self-service
organizations, and

Whereas, we, the South Carolina Democrats, feel that
due to the constant pressure and propoganda applied by
minority groups, the Federal Goverment under the leadership
of both major political parties has, through its Courts
and other Agencies, relentlessly and steadily encroached
upon the rights of the sovereign states and their citizens,
and that if continued to go unchecked and unchallenged,
poses a real and grave danger to the very existence of
constitutional goverment, and

Whereas, we, the South Carolina Democrats, feel that
we along with the other Southern States constitute the last
great stronghold of consitutional goverment.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED:

1. That we, the South Carolina Democrats now assembled,
do publicly declare our determination to maintain the over-
eignty of our State and to protect the rights and privileges
of all its citizens guaranteed to them under the Constitution
of the United States, and

2. That we will fight the selection, nomination and
election of any individual or individuals who would infringe
upon these rights, orwho would attack our time-honored
traditions and institutions, regardless of the banner under
which he or they might parade.

3. That delegates from this precinct to the County
Convention are instructed to support this or a similar
resolution in the County Convention.

=== Page 3 ===
ployment for Negroes

As a result of CORE action, employment of Negroes is assured in four supermarkets.

Following a conference between CORE representatives and the personnel of Kropp's has agreed to hire some Negroes in all capacities at its new street now under construction. The CORE spokesmen pointed out that because of the store's location, much of its patronage will come from the Negro.

Following 10 days of picketing, an A & P supermarket has agreed to hire Negro meat cutters, truck drivers and more clerks immediately and to consider Negro office workers in the near future. CORE members cooperated with the UP in maintaining the picket line.

Survey to Prepare
For Stepped-Up Integration

NASHVILLE, Tenn. In anticipation of the Mayor's integration of the remaining grades, members of the Fisk University student Sociology Club work with CORE on a survey of Negro children in areas of Nashville affected by desegregation.

The survey is aimed at locating the children who live in areas that will be integrated in Nashville's next step. Since desegregation is still uncertain, CORE and the Sociology Club members feel, however, that it is important to begin contacts with these families early, so that there will be follow-up work on the part of community groups.

At present, the survey will be made in two neighborhoods, which are being considered intensively—one in North Nashville and the other in South Nashville. The School board had announced the enrollment of Negro first graders at nearby "white" schools in these areas last fall, but none registered. The areas have sizeable Negro populations and children received much abuse from community groups last fall. CORE members participated in the registration rush as volunteer guards and as observers at school.

LITERATURE
NEW

THIS IS CORE (replacing WHAT IS CORE), a colorful pamphlet detailing CORE techniques, structure and organization. 10¢

CORE RULES FOR ACTION (replacing CORE ACTION DISCIPLINE), a colorful pamphlet detailing CORE methodology. 10¢

On quantity orders: 5 copies for 25¢, 100 copies for $2.50, 1000 copies for $20.

OTHER

OUR STRUGGLE, story of the Montgomery bus protest, by Rev. Martin Luther King (reprinted from LIBERATION). 20¢

PICTURE STORY OF A CORE PROJECT. 5¢

IT CAN HAPPEN IN MISSOURI, story of St. Louis CORE's successful campaign against discrimination. free

Literature marked free costs 2¢ in quantities over 10. On priced literature, there is a reduction on quantity orders.

I enclose $_____ for literature (specify which)
I enclose $_____ for general contribution to help your work.
Name ______________________________
Address ____________________________

CORE-LATOR

Published by the CONGRESS OF RACIAL EQUALITY, 38 Park Row, New York 38
A National Federation of local interracial groups working to abolish racial discrimination by direct nonviolent methods

James R. Robinson, executive secretary
James T. McCain, field secretary
Jim Peck, editor

FEBRUARY—BROTHERHOOD MONTH—1958 No. 72

Sumter CORE Registration Committee in Action . . .
. . . A Planning Session

Left to right: Rev. H. P. Sharper, Rev. Donald Rice, Rev. J. H. Nelson, James T. McCain (CORE national field secretary) and Rev. Edward Frazier. Similar committees to mobilize Negro registration have been set up by McCain in three counties. Rev. F. C. James, chairman of the Sumter county committee, is not in the picture (he took it).

. . . An Instruction Session

James T. McCain, national field secretary, instructs a group on how to fill out application blanks for registration. Following such sessions, he accompanies the people to registration offices and remains with them until they receive their certificates, which are required for voting.

See story on page 2.

=== Page 4 ===
Registration Campaign in South Carolina

(see picture on page 1)

SUMTER, S.C — Since the first of the year, James T. McCain, national CORE field secretary, has been organizing a registration campaign in an area of South Carolina where he has lived and worked for the major part of his life. Aim of the campaign is to translate the new Civil Rights bill into reality by getting Negroes to exercise their right to vote.

The procedure followed by McCain is to establish in each county a committee which instructs persons on how to fill out application blanks, accompanies them to registration offices and remains with them until they receive their certificates for voting. These committees are called Committee on Registration Education (CORE).

So far three such committees have been established—in Sumter county, where McCain’s home is located; Richland county, which includes the city of Columbia and Clarendon county, where the first school case originated.

“Since the Sumter committee has been organized, several hundred persons who ordinarily would not have gotten registration certificates received them,” McCain reports. “Each day the registration office is open, a committee representative accompanies a group there. Applicants who fail to receive their certificate because of any error on the blank, are given further instruction by the committee and are taken back to the registration office to re-apply. At present over 50 volunteers are assisting the committee.”

In Sumter county, registrars have not thus far resorted to using technicalities to bar Negroes from registering—a practice so widespread in the deep south. However, in Clarendon county, an applicant reported back to the CORE committee that she had been refused a certificate because she mispronounced the word “indict” in reading the state constitution. She plans to re-apply until she obtains the certificate.

In Williamsburg county Negroes—some of them teachers and college graduates—have been summarily refused registration blanks because in the registrar’s opinion they could not read and write. McCain hopes to establish a CORE committee soon in this county.

While a purpose of the newly-enacted election law was to discourage Negroes from exercising their voting rights, its effect has been to discourage whites. While Negroes, aided by the CORE committees, are making a point of registering, regardless of inconvenience, many whites are unwilling to spend the half-hour of time required for registration under the new law’s procedure.

CORE is considering a summer workshop in some southern community combining instruction on non-violence with community action. Suggestions from CORElator leaders regarding location, dates, program, etc. will be welcome.

ST. LOUIS—Wallet-sized cards listing all local eating places with “facilities open to all,” have been made available by St. Louis CORE following an intensive testing program. They can be obtained from Charles Oldham, 5110 Palm St. Louis 15, Mo.

The Lucky 13th

NEW YORK CITY—“Mohawk Airlines has made the 13th a good luck day,” is the heading on leaflets distributed on January 13 by New York CORE in front of the central airlines ticket office on New York’s 42nd St.

The leaflet goes on to explain: “On January 13th Ruth C. Taylor, the first Negro stewardess on a scheduled domestic airline, begins training as a Mohawk stewardess.”

The leaflet distribution—some 1500 were distributed over the lunch hour period—was the opening action of New York CORE’s campaign to break down the policy of discrimination in employment of flight crews, which prevails throughout the airlines industry.

In addition to Ruth Taylor, the only Negroes employed aboard planes are a pilot for New York Airways, a local helicopter service, and two pilots on airfreight lines.

Representatives of New York CORE have conferred with the chairman of the State Commission Against Discrimination, which has a number of airline cases pending, and with the personnel manager of TWA, which is in the process of considering a policy change. CORE’s campaign will continue, climaxing at a strategic time with a major demonstration.

ST. LOUIS—Four skits, written and acted by CORE members and depicting highlights of St. Louis CORE’s anti-discrimination actions over the past 10 years, were presented Jan. 12. Featured speaker was Dr. Huston Smith of Washington University, who is a CORE member. Some 200 persons attended.

Extensive Testing Program

BALTIMORE—For its program, CORE has selected testing of eating, recreation, and other public facilities in this area with a view to initiating an effective project.

With the assistance of religious and educational organizations, CORE has drawn up a list of some 200 establishments, some of which are known to integration, others that are known to discriminate openly, and others whose policies have not been determined. This list has been divided among five captains who each have a team to test and report back. Some of the teams are all-Negro, others are inter-racial; some include only men, others include men and women.

Helen Brown is serving as project coordinator. Support of the project has been enthusiastic. The number of participants is much greater than the cooperation of the other interest organizations.

Most recent places tested as the CORElator goes to press are Miller’s and Leon’s which serves Negroes only on take-out orders and White’s, a white-table-cloth restaurant.

NASHVILLE, Tenn.—CORE encouraged attendance at the Fisk University Choir’s performance of The Messiah December 8, at Nashville’s War Memorial Auditorium. Seating for the performance was on an unsegregated basis and the Choir was composed of both white and Negro singers. Otis Pennington, a member of the CORE executive committee, sang in the integrated choir.
