=== Page 1 ===
We are certainly not ashamed of our tradi-
tions, our conservative beliefs, nor our segre-
gated way of life.


How Will The Citizens’ Councils
Roll Back the Dark Cloud
of Integration?


By organizing the white Americans who
have pride in their white race and fore-
thought for their posterity, by mobilizing
public opinion.

Edmund Burke, the great British states-
man, said, “All that is necessary for the tri-
umph of evil is that good men do nothing.”

We must organize every town and county
in our state and then every state in the South.
Forty million white Southerners, or a frac-
tion thereof, can be a power in this nation if
properly organized and certainly need not
fear the NAACP, with only 200,000 members.

We need every patriotic white Southerner,
rich or poor, high or low, who is proud of
being a white American. It is indeed sicken-
ing to hear some of our brain-washed educat-
ed people whine, “It’s inevitable. There’s
nothing we can do. We have lost.” Our
Southland by every material line of reason-
ing should already be a land of mulattoes.
Eighty years ago our unconquerable ances-
tors were beaten, in poverty and degradation,
unable to vote and under the heel of negro
occupation troops. All they had was their
undying courage and faith that the Almighty
helps those who help themselves. Are we
less than they? We are the same blood; white
blood that was kept pure for you for 6,000
years by white men.

Our situation is not as hopeless as theirs,
but just as insidious and deadly to our pos-
terity if you and I do nothing. What decision
are you going to make for those baby chil-
dren at home?

[ 4 ]

In conclusion, here are some facts: At this
time (November, 1954) there are one hundred
and ten towns in Mississippi that now have
Citizens’ Councils, including over 25,000
white male members and penetrating 33 coun-
ties. Our sister states, Alabama and Georgia,
have formed councils and they are now
spreading. A state Association of Citizens’
Councils of Mississippi has been formed,
with headquarters at Winona, Mississippi.
Our councils have helped pass a vital amend-
ment to our State Constitution that the peo-
ple of Mississippi failed to pass only two
years ago. Racial tensions have been eased
and local problems solved in counties that
have active Citizens’ Councils.

The highest type of leadership has been
provided in each community where councils
have been formed. We intend to prevent in-
tegration legally and thus prevent violence,
friction and racial hatred. We intend to carry
on the peaceful relations we have had with
our colored citizens, to help them to help
themselves and to try to help instill in them
a sense of pride in their race as we have in
ours.

If you are interested in forming a Citizens’
Council in your community, contact our state
headquarters at Winona or any Citizens’
Council from your adjoining county and we
will be glad to assist you. Then, in turn, you
may help your adjoining county organize.

Either we will all stay white together or
we will be integrated county by county and
state by state. Are you doing your part?
There is nothing more important at this time!


Published by the
ASSOCIATION OF
CITIZENS’ COUNCILS

WINONA, MISS.
(HEADQUARTERS)


[ 5 ]
