=== Page 1 ===
On The Record
Outstanding South Carolina Negro

When I. S. Leevy died last month at the age of 91, his obituary listed enough achievements in business, education, civic works and politics for a half dozen leaders. He had a guiding hand for most advance movements for the Negroes in his state and community, and wielded tremendous influence on securing better advantages for his race.

Until 1964, when he switched to the Democratic Party, Leevy was a Republican and ran for Congress four times under the GOP banner. He attended Republican national conventions starting in 1944, but was always in the losing faction and was not seated as a delegate until 1960. During that convention I spent an afternoon with him in his hotel room in Chicago.

Leevy was blind in his latter years. He was accompanied on his flight to Chicago by Claude McCallum, a business associate for many years. While McCallum went to a baseball game, Leevy spent the hours reminiscing over his eventful life.

By
John A.
Montgomery

Leevy became a Republican in 1916 when the South Carolina GOP convention notified him that he had been elected the candidate for Congress from his district.

He consulted with a friend and confidante, Capt. William E. Gonzales, editor of The State, who encouraged him to make the race. "I am a Democrat," Leevy quoted the editor as saying, "but I believe in a two-party system, and I shall be glad to give you whatever assistance I can in your campaign."

When Leevy accepted the nomination, he was told that it was customary for the candidate to pay the expenses of the state convention, which amounted to $200. He refused to pay that amount and they settled for $20.

He ran for Congress in 1916, 1918, 1946 and 1954 on Republican tickets, losing each time to a Democrat, one time by only 200 votes. But he received no help from the national Republican Party. "We do not want to destroy our coalition with white Southern Democrats by electing a Negro Republican from the South," he was told by GOP congressional leaders.

From his early boyhood at Antioch in Kershaw County, Leevy was eager for an education. He finished high school at Mather Academy, Camden, and was graduated from Hampton Institute in Virginia when he was 30 years old, working summers in the North to pay for his education. He received honorary degrees from South Carolina State College, Morris College and Allen University in his native state.

When he took his first college vacation job at Bar Harbor, Maine, he was a curiosity, because no Negro had been there in 40 years. White parents brought their children to see him so that they would know how a Negro looked.

After graduation he rejected a job that offered him $600 a month, with white servants, in Bermuda and Palm Beach and came back to South Carolina to teach for $35 a month. Three years later he was doing a $30,000-a-year business as a tailor in Columbia with 30 people working for him.

One of Leevy's remarks would astound the northern critics of Strom Thurmond who brand the South Carolina Senator as a white supremacist and racist because of his opposition to federal civil rights legislation.

"As Governor, Strom Thurmond did more for the Negroes of South Carolina than the federal government has done in 100 years," Leevy said. He recalled that Thurmond, as Governor, often consulted with him on what he could do for the Negroes of his state.

Leevy supported Richard Nixon, the GOP nominee for President, in 1960. "He is a safe man for President," he said that afternoon in his Chicago room. "He takes the middle of the road on domestic affairs and has a sound position on foreign policy. John F. Kennedy, on the other hand, may overcome his youth and his religious obstacles, but I doubt that he can overcome his radicalism, which seems to be part of him."

Leevy added that the thought Negroes and whites would work together better as young men came into political leadership, replacing the older politicians. He lived to see that prediction come true.

ISAAC SAMUEL LEEVY
