=== Page 1 ===
7198

[ca. 1963]

Personal Biography of  Isaac Samuel Leevy, M. A., L. H. D., L. L. D.
1831 Taylor Street
Columbia, South Carolina

For inclusion in: SOUTH CAROLINA LIVES

LEEVY, ISAAC SAMUEL, religious, business, civic and educational leader, 1831 Taylor Street, Columbia, S. C. Born at Antioch, Kershaw County, South Carolina, he is the son of Isaac S. and Laura (Hunter) Leevy. He was educated at the Public Schools of Antioch, South Carolina; Mather Academy, Camden, South Carolina; Hampton Institute of Hampton, Virginia; received honorary degrees as follows: South Carolina State College of Orangeburg, South Carolina, the Master of Arts degree; Morris College of Sumter, South Carolina, the Doctor of Humanities degree; and Allen University, Columbia, South Carolina, the Doctor of Laws degree. For more than sixty years of perseverance and struggle as a pioneer in business and in recognition of his inspirational character in Civic and Political leadership in his state, he was awarded a Plaque for distinguished service by Benedict College, Columbia, South Carolina, 1962. For untiring leadership in his state Morticians association for more than thirty years, he was, in 1962, honored by his association and presented a Plaque for the same. On June 23, 1909, he was married to Miss Mary E. Kirkland of Westville, South Carolina. They are the parents of: Mrs. Ruby Johnson, Isaac Kirkland Leevy, Dr. Carroll Moten Leevy, and Marion Naomi Leevy. He was engaged as a teacher during 1906-7 and was a personal friend of Reverend Richard Carroll, who sponsored his coming to Columbia. He was a Merchant Tailor during 1907-17; Department Stores Owner-Manager during 1910-30; Service Station Owner-Manager during 1928-50; Retail Furniture Dealer during 1930-32; farmer and commerical hog raising from 1930-38; engaged in New Home Development Company Real Estate; Leevy's Barber Shop; Leevy's Beauty Shop; Leevy's Automobile Garage; Leevy's Dressmaking; Burial Association; Funeral Home 1932 to the present; and a G. I. School for Veterans interested in the Funeral Profession. He served as trustee of Claflin College at Orangeburg, South Carolina; Interracial Board of the Associated Charities of Richland County, now Department of Public Welfare; the Interracial Board for Delinquent Negro Girls, Fairwold School, presently Wilkinson Orphan Home for Negro Girls, Cayce, South Carolina; served on Interracial Board for Elkinton Old Folks Home; Chairman of Board for Colored Soldiers Service Club in World War I, presently

=== Page 2 ===
7198 [c. 1963]
LEEVY, Isaac Samuel - Page 2
the U. S. O. He served as co-organizer of the Columbia Branch of the National Association
for the Advancement of Colored People; was co-organizer, Vice President, President and
Director of Victory Savings Bank, Columbia, South Carolina; he was Negro State Fair Associa-
tion co-organizer, board member, and for several years its Acting Secretary; charter member
of the South Carolina Race Relations Commission; organizer of the Booker Washington School,
the Waverly School and the Leevy Graded School, which is presently the Carver School; co-
organizer of the Richland County Tuberculosis Hospital for Negroes at Ridgewood; co-
organizer of the State Industrial School for Negro Girls and co-organizer of the literary depart-
ment of the John G. Richards reform school for Negro boys located near Columbia; was instru-
mental in securing and was a co-organizer of the Graduate Department of the South Carolina
State College; and he is ex-vice president of the National Negro Bankers Association of America.
He was a life member of the National Negro Business League, at the time when Booker T.
Washington was its President. He organized the Negro Mortuary Department of the South
Carolina State Hospital and his persistence in petitioning for a Negro Chaplain at the aforesaid
institution has resulted in the appointment of same. One of his gestures as a benefactor was
the donation of a thirty acre tract of land through the Columbia Bible College to the Bethel Bible
Camp near Columbia. He was honored in 1936 in his appointment from Washington, D. C. to
head a committee to assemble college presidents, heads of schools and leaders in South Carolina
to introduce the Social Security program to his native state. His Fraternal memberships in-
clude: thirty-second degree Mason and member of the Odd Fellows. He holds membership in
the Palmetto State Voters Association, serving as Richland County Chairman. Is member and
a director of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, Martin Luther King, President.
He is a member of the Lincoln Emancipation Clubs, Inc., serving as president and founder,
under which a full Republican ticket for the South Carolina Legislature was set up for twenty-
three counties and a nominee for Congress from the Second Congressional District was run.
His political affiliation is with the Democrats through the primary and in the General elec-
tions with the Republicans when they have candidates. He is a staunch and uncompromising
advocate of a two political party system for his state (South Carolina), the south and all
America. He has served as Richland County Chairman of the South Carolina Republican
Party, and for many years, State Vice Chairman, also served as State Director of Publicity
for the party. As a Republican, he has been three times a candidate for the Columbia City

=== Page 3 ===
LEEVY, Isaac Samuel      -      Page 3

council (Commission form); two times a candidate for the South Carolina Legislature; and 
four times a candidate for the United States Congress, and in one campaign, needed less
than 200 votes to defeat an incumbent of 19 years. He was elected delegate-at-large to the
National Republican Convention held in California in August of 1956, where the candidates
for President and Vice President of the United States were nominated and his prominence
in the National political scene was evident. Was an employee of Judge Martin Keogh, New
York, who was instrumental in nominating President Woodrow Wilson. Is a personal friend
of former Vice President Richard Nixon and presently nominee for Governor of California.
His religious affiliation is with the Methodist Church, which he has served as Superintendent
of Sunday School, Class Leader, Trustee, Steward, and in 1912, was a delegate to its General
Conference held in Minneapolis, Minnesota where he was co-nominator of the First Negro
Bishop to seek office in its constituency. He is a dynamic public speaker of note and his 
interests further are civic affairs, welfare work and politics. One of his favorite quotations
follows, "No matter what your business is, if God is your business partner, make your plans 
large."
