=== Page 1 ===
4 BLACK ON NEWS, November 1973

S.C. HISTORY: LEEVY-BLACK PIONEER

ISAAC LEEVY -- A FAMILY TRADITION

A distinguished South Carolinian who served the whole people of his state with dedication, Isaac Samuel Leevy left his mark upon business, the school system, and the community. Instrumental in beginning many business and civic enterprises, Mr. Leevy helped organize the Palmetto State Fair Association — so that Negroes could enjoy a fair annually - and served as Board Member and acting secretary for many years. He was a co-founder of the Victory Savings Bank and served as vice-president and president; he helped found the Columbia Branch of the NAACP and was a charter member of the South Carolina Race-Relations Commission. He was a co-organizer of the Richland County Tuberculosis Hospital for Negroes at Ridgewood, and organizer of the Literary Department of the John G. Richards- School of Negro Boys near Columbia. Mr. Leevy founded and was a former president of the New Home Development Company and organized the Negro Mortuary Department of the South Carolina State Hospital. His entrepreneurship created more jobs for Negroes than any other Negro in the state. He pioneered in business and financial institutions that brought security, training, and stability to the business community.

Mr. Leevy's interest was not confined to business. He was a founder of the Waverly School, the Leevy Graded School (now Carver Elementary), and Booker T. Washington School. Nor was his interest confined to the public schools. On the higher educational level, he was intensely interested in and pushed graduate education at South Carolina State College in Orangeburg, South Carolina. He held honorary degrees from Morris College in Sumter, South Carolina, South Carolina State College of Orangeburg, the Interracial Board of the Associated Charities of Richland County (now the Department of Public Welfare), the Inter-racial Board for Delinquent Girls, Fairwold School (presently Wilkins Orphan Home for Girls, Cayce, South Carolina), the Interracial Board for Elkinton Old Folks Homes. He was also chairman of the Board for Colored Soldiers Service Clubs in World War I - presently the U.S.O. Mr. Leevy was a life member of the National Negro Business League, at the time when Booker T. Washington was its president, and was at one time the vice-president of the National Negro Bankers Association of America.

One of his gestures as a benefactor was the donation of a thirty acre tract of land through the Columbia Bible College to the Bethel Bible Camp near Columbia.

A few years later, still spurred on by ambition, Mr. Leevy entered the Department Store business and was the first Negro in this area to be rated in Dunn & Bradstreet for over $100,000.00. The coming of the boll weevil and the exodus of Black people north caused a tremendous slump in business. Not discouraged over this loss in the Department Store business, he bought out a bankrupt furniture company and was operating a successful business within one year.

The depression came and Mr. Leevy's business suffered like other businesses. He sold out. In 1929, yet determined to head an enterprise of credit to his race, he moved his house back and built a filling station, for which he received a bronze award for ten years of outstanding service from the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey.

The Leevy Service Station, located at 1831 Taylor Street, is said to have been the first station opened by a Negro in this section and offered modern rest room accommodations to tourists of color. From the same location, Mr. Leevy opened a funeral home after being encouraged to do so by his nephew, Isasc Leevy Murray, who was successfully operating a funeral home in Jersey City, New Jersey. The funeral home, which today is still at 1831 Taylor Street is recognized as one of the largest and most modern in the state of South Carolina.

Isaac Leevy believed strongly in work and education. He not only educated his grandchildren and children, but provided for his great-grandchildren to be educated, though he never knew many of them. He, with his wife, exposed his family to community and cultural affairs throughout his life. His sons, Carroll and Isaac Kirkland were often featured in church concerts playing violin duets. His grandchildren were seen with him or his wife throughout the countryside and nation at church and political affairs. They were active in voter registration long before they understood what it was all about. Much of the activity was centered in the funeral home, where meetings were held and voting machines brought in for the public to learn the mechanisms of voting.

Isaac S. Leevy

Not only was Isaac Leevy a humanitarian, but he was a churchman. His religious affiliation was the Methodist Church, where he served as Superintendant of the Sunday-School, Class Leader, Trustee, and Stewart. He was honored by being chosen as a delegate to three sessions of the General Conference of the Methodist and Episcopal Church, at the 1912 session of which he nominated the first Negro to be elected to serve as Bishop in this county - Bishop Matthew W. Clair. He gave unfailingly to his own church and to all churches, as he gave to all worthy organizations.

In the days before Negroes had achieved political sophistication, Mr. Leevy would go from church to church preaching the gospel of civic righteousness: "Register and vote... Register and vote". More often than not he would be met with the reply "You ought not bring politics into the church." To which he would reply "Until we develop some civic and political leaders outside the church we've got to involve church people in civic affairs".

He was Richland County Chairman of the Palmetto State Voters Association and was a member of the Board of Directors of Dr. Martin Luther King's Southern Christian Leadership Conference. He was a staunch and uncompromising advocate of a two party system for the state of South Carolina and served as Richland County Chairman of the South Carolina-Republican Party. He also served as State Vice Chairman and State Directors of Publicity for the party.

Mr. Leevy became a Republican in 1916 when the South Carolina GOP convention notified him that he had been elected the candidate from Congress for his district. When he accepted the nomination he was told that it was customary for the candidate to pay the expenses of the state convention, which amounted to $200.0. He refused to pay that amount and they settled for $20.00. He ran for Congress in 1916, 1918, 1946, and 1954 on Republican tickets, losing each time to a Democrate, one time by only 200 votes. But he received no help from the National Republican Pary. "We do not want to destroy our coalition with white Southern Democrats by electing a Negro Republican from the South." He was told by GOP congressional leaders.

Isaac Leevy was a relentless driver who pursued what he believed to be right for himself, his family, and his people. A man of wit, people felt his humor even during trying times. Blinded during the last years of his life, I.S. Leevy recognized ninety per cent of the people with whom he spoke after only a few exchanges of words. Once he began a project he never let go until he had accomplished his mission. He relied on others as little as possible and was almost complete self-sufficient. He stayed abreast of all aspects of his business - from signing his signature to checks to serving families personally. He was a volatile man - dynamic in the truest sense of the word. His cresades in politics and equal rights for all men reaped rewards not only for himself, but for all persons in the community. His wife, Mary E. Kirkland Leevy was always at his side and was invaluable to him in his business, political, and community activities. She was the ideal wife and mother. She read newspapers and articles of interest to him daily and served as his "sight" when necessary. She prepared his meals and was his constant companion.

she has always been active in the community and continued to devote her time to making the funeral home a continuing success.

Mr. Leevy's last business venture was his most successful, and again the children and grandchildren were deeply involved. It was not unusual to see at least one grandchild driving an automobile, playing the organ, or working on the grave truck at the funeral service. Though always willing to give to his family - when asked for a dollar his reply was "Would a quarter do?!" Most times he gave the dollar, but it had to be justified.

The grandchildren of Isaac Leevy have been making their marks in the community and business world. They are professionals and businessmen and women and all have achieved some measure of success in their chosen fields. Thus the family is making every effort to follow the course laid many years ago. Whatever successes attained can be attributed only to Isaac Samuel Leevy. As patriach of his immediate and extended family, he paved the way for the generations to follow. He started in the basement, his children continued to the ground floor, and his grandchildren are continuing on the second floor. And so it will go on until his family has built the tallest of buildings. In his words they will "Keep on keeping on".

When I. S. Leevy died on December 9, 1968 at the age of 91, his obituary listed enought achievements in business, education, civic works and politics for a half dozen leaders. He had a guiding hand for most advance movements for the Negroes in his state and community, and wielded tremendous influence on securing better advantages for his race. He lived a long and industrious life with his days spanning a series of staggering changes in the social structure of the state. As the milestones came and went, he could look back upon the long highway of social justice and perceive the spots where he, himself, had planted some of the markers. As a mortician, he knew the frail mortality of man; as a man, he knew that the living must serve the living and he did, in full measure.

Isaac Samuel Leevy was well-loved and respected in the community. He sparkled with a fire that touched those around him. He was concerned that people be treated fairly and was always willing to help the poor. In all of his business ventures he would often give merchandise to customers when he knew they need but could not afford his goods. Perhaps this explains much of his success in life...an unselfishness that pervaded all facets of his life. "Deserving poor never refused" was one of his favorite slogans.

Though he was gentle, kind, and understanding, there was a determination in him to achieve and a certain stubborness and persistence he carried with him into all situations. Even when he was a child — wearing his sisters skirts to school because he had no clothes - and cardboard under his feet — because he had no shoes - he was determined to walk those miles because he wanted to be educated. His efforts on behalf of the underprivileged, his compassion, his empathy, and his struggles for the equal rights of all people were sincere. He himself knew the struggle firsthand — and was forced to fight his way to success.

Perhaps his basic philosophy can be summed up in one word — "hope". I. S. Leevy said, "What a man needs most is hope. He's got to have something to make him know that a better day is coming; that his dreams can come true. And it doesn't have to be a large thing. Just a little bit of hope can keep a man alive. There is a story in the Old Testament about a time of drought. When the people and the cattle had no water to drink and the fields were parched for lack of rain - the people called upon the prophet to pray for rain, and when he prayed Jehovah gave him a sign, just a small cloud in the far away sky about the size of a man's hand - but this was the promise of life - giving water, and it kept the people's hope alive...I'm going to keep on keeping on until the battle is won".
