=== Page 1 ===
7199 [N. W.]

I. S. Leevy, Columbia Business Man, Gets Service Award For Ten Years Service
Palmetto Leader

I. S. Leevy, prominent business man of Columbia, and operator of a Standard Oil Service Station, recently received a bronze award for ten years of outstanding service from the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey, it was learned this week.

The Leevy Service Station located at 1831 Taylor St., Columbia, was opened in early 1929, and is said to have been the first station opened by a member of our group in that section, and offering modern rest room accommodations to colored tourists.

Mr. Leevy, the proud proprietor, is a native South Carolinian. He was born in Gershaw county, at Antioch, and after attending the public schools in his immediate community and Mather at Camden, he matriculated at Hampton, graduating in 1906. The first two years after graduation Mr. Leevy taught school at maysville.

During this time he had met and cultivated the friendship of Rev. Richard Carroll, an influential pastor and civic leader, who urged him to come to Columbia and enter business. Upon his arrival, still inspired by the advice and encouragement of the Rev. Carroll, Mr. Leevy purchased a tailor shop and in a short period was employing 20 men and making clothing for the railroad men, etc.

A few years later, still spurred on by ambition, Mr. Leevy entered the Department Store business and at one time was rated in Dunn and Bhadstreet for between $75,000 and $100,000. The coming of the boll weevil and the exodus of our people north, caused a tremendous slump in business.

Not discouraged over his lost in the Department Store business, Mr. Leevy bought out a bankrupt furniture company and sold $39,000 worth of furniture the next year.

The depression came on and Mr. Leevy’s business suffered like other businesses. He sold out. In 1939, yet determined to head an enterprise of credit to his race, Mr. Leevy moved his house back and built his present filling station.

In addition to his filling station Mr Leevy operates a modern funeral home. He is assisted in the ventures by his wife and children and several employes.
