=== Page 1 ===
[NO TEXT DETECTED]

=== Page 2 ===
CROSSING THE BAR

Sunset and evening star
And one clear call for me!
And may there be no mourning at the bar,
When I put out to sea.

But such a tide as moving seems asleep,
Too full for sound or form,
When that which drew from the boundless deep,
Turn again home.

Twilight and evening bells,
And after that the dark!
And may there be no sadness of farewell
When I embark.

For though from out our bourne of time and place
The tide may bear me far!
I hope to see my pilot face to face,
When I have crossed the bar.
—Alfred Tennyson

Honorary Pallbearers
Business Associates

Active Pallbearers
Masonic Lodge

ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

The family of Mr. I. S. Leevy acknowledge all acts of kindness and sympathy shown them during their bereavement.


MEMORIAL OBSEQUIES
For
MR. ISAAC SAMUEL LEEVY
Thursday, December 12, 1968 - 3:30 P. M.
Allen University Auditorium

Prelude
Processional
Hymn
The Old Testament Scripture .... Rev. J. M. Hinton
New Testament Scripture .... Rev. L. C. Jenkins, Sr.
Hymn
Remarks .................... Honorable Lester L. Bates
Hymn
Eulogy .................... Rev. Matthew D. McCollom
Solo ................................... The Perfect Day
Committal ....................... Rev. F. G. C. Dubose
Benediction

Masonic Rites at graveside, Lincoln Cemetery

Music, courtesy Allen University Choir
Professor John Hunter, Director

=== Page 3 ===
OBITUARY

I. S. Leevy, the son of Mrs. Laura Hunter Leevy and Isaac Samuel Leevy, Senior was born in Antioch section, Kershaw County, South Carolina. He attended Mather Academy, Camden, South Carolina and was a graduate of Hampton Institute, Hampton, Virginia. He held honorary degrees from South Carolina State College, Orangeburg, Morris College, Sumter and Allen University, Columbia, South Carolina.

He was awarded a plaque for distinguished service to his fellowmen by Benedict College in 1962. He was awarded the Radio Station W O I C Outstanding Citizen Award in 1967.

His many endeavors in business added much in the areas of growth and employment in his community. His interest and participation in the political and civic development of his state is keenly felt by his many peers.
